# Contribution Guidelines

Hello! You want to help out with developing the Stupid Addon? Very cool, come on in.

Before you get started, I trust you've read the [Contributing](README.md#contributing) section of the README, if you
haven't, go back and read over that, since this document is just for guidelines. It won't explain much else.

With that out of the way, here's the main guidelines that you should follow to make sure your contribution passes
review and is accepted with not much friction!

## Guidelines

### 1. Commit Etiquette

Your commits should be _meaningful_, and provide _concrete_ changes. Before you commit, make sure your commit does the
following things:

1. Actually contributes something! Meaningless commits like whitespace changes, or converting a file to CRLF are not OK.
2. Touches the least amount of existing code it needs to function. You can register extensions and edit existing files
   to make them work, but you must **not** reformat the entire file just because you added 2 lines to it.
3. Explanatory commit messages. Your commit message should succinctly summarise what you changed in your commit. If you
   run out of space, you can add multiple lines, don't worry about it. Now, a little bit of humour in a commit message
   never hurt anyone, but make sure it's actually relevant to your changes. Or put it at the bottom of the additional
   description. That works too.
4. Coherent commits. Your commits should make logical sense in isolation. Did you make a method, but then overwrite it
   three times in a row to fix bugs? That should probably have been one commit.
5. At least slightly tested. I'm not asking you to write unit tests or retest everything whenever you change code. But
   make sure it's not completely broken and there's no obvious bugs/issues in it. It's fine if you overlooked something
   and then go back to fix it later.
6. Don't change other things just for the sake of it. The architecture is quite deliberately thought out, and any
   optimisations should be wholly separate from features.
7. Don't change project information, dependencies (including versions), or alter anything that isn't code _unless you
   have a very good reason to do so_.

### 2. Code Style

Follow the existing code style, formatting, conventions, etc. At the end of the day, this _is_ my project, so it should
feel like it is.

1. Indent with spaces. Use 2 per level. This style should be apparent in the code, but if it's not, you might want to
   change your IDE settings. (For IntelliJ: Continuation indent is 4).
2. Use **British English** where possible. If external API calls depend on fields named `color` or `initialize`, that's
   fine, just use them as is. However, *any* code that is part of this plugin must use British spellings. That includes
   comments, function names, variable names, default values, anything. By not doing so, you risk an inconsistent
   codebase that I might have to come and fix a bit.
3. Singular vs Plural. If a class serves a single purpose and creates on concrete item, it should be _singular_. If a
   single class registers multiple things, or nested items (like commands), that can be _plural_.
4. Just because something isn't listed here, doesn't give you free rein to do whatever you want, look at patterns, and
   if you notice any that aren't listed here, shoot me a message or make an issue!

### 3. Project Structure

Adhere to the existing project structure. This has some tie-in with the last point, but it's not the same.

1. All code must be in the same package: `dev.evilsquirrelguy.sc_stupidaddon`.
2. All submodules should be singular. i.e. `task` and `command`, rather than `tasks` and `commands`.
3. Don't reinvent the wheel. If I have a specific way for adding functionality, like commands or modules, stick to it.
4. Don't repeat yourself. Commonly used code snippets should probably be put into `util`. Remember, inheritance is your
   friend – if you want to slightly change the behaviour of a class, chances are you only need to override one or two
   methods.

### 4. Generative AI

GenAI is a useful tool, I'll give it that, and it's very handy for spotting certain kinds of bugs that you might have
missed otherwise. But your code should be your own. It's OK to ask ChatGPT to rewrite bits of your code if you're
struggling or to speed up the process, but you **must not** push code of which significant portions are generated by AI.

Now, I have no way of _definitively knowing_ that code is mostly human written, but AI-generated code is often kinda
tone-deaf, and often full of bugs. By writing your own code (or at least top-level architecture), you'll actually know
what's going on, and be in a better position to push cool new features out faster. If you include AI-generated code, you
**must** be confident that you understand what's going on in it.

### 5. Pull Requests & New Features

You don't need permission to suggest new features or implement them, but it's always nice to let me know if you have
any cool ideas for the project that you want to see coming into fruition. If you submit a pull request you will have to
communicate with me anyway, might as well do it from the start!

If you start work on a new feature, it's probably a good idea to open a _Draft Pull Request_, just so I can see that
it's being worked on, and offer you advice and whatnot. Once your feature is ready, you can promote it to a normal one,
or 'ready to merge'. But before you do, make sure to check the following:

1. Does it adhere to **all** of the aforementioned guidelines?
2. Is it feature-complete? There's nothing stopping you from coming up with new ideas for it later, but it's best if you
   get them out of the way as soon as possible.
3. Is it tested? Have you actually put it on a server and tested to see if the features work?
4. Is your purpose clear? Can you tell at a glance what your pull request is supposed to do?

If the answer to **any** of the above is no, go and fix it. Your PR might be significantly delayed, or outright rejected
if you don't. If you fulfil all of them, congratulations! There's a good chance it'll be included in the next release.


Thanks for reading, and happy contributing!
\- EvilSquirrelGuy